  What we term virtue is often but a mass of various actions and divers interests, which fortune, or our own industry, manage to arrange; and it is not always from valour or from chastity that men are brave, and women chaste.
“Who combats bravely is not therefore brave, He dreads a death-bed like the meanest slave; Who reasons wisely is not therefore wise, His pride in reasoning, not in acting, lies.” Pope, MORAL ESSAYS, Ep. i. line 115.
  Self-love is the greatest of flatterers.
  Whatever discoveries have been made in the region of self-love, there remain many unexplored ter- ritories there.
[This is the first hint of the system the author tries to develope. He wishes to find in vice a motive for all our actions, but this does not suffice him; he is obliged to call other passions to the help of his system and to confound pride, vanity, interest and egotism with self love. This confusion destroys the unity of his principle.–AIME MARTIN.]
  Self love is more cunning than the most cunning man in the world.
  The duration of our passions is no more de- pendant upon us than the duration of our life. [Then what becomes of free will?–AIME MARTIN]
  Passion often renders the most clever man a fool, and even sometimes renders the most foolish man clever.
  Great and striking actions which dazzle the eyes are represented by politicians as the effect of great designs, instead of which they are commonly caused by the temper and the passions. Thus the war between Augustus and Anthony, which is set down to the ambition they entertained of making themselves masters of the world, was probably but an effect of jealousy.
  The passions are the only advocates which always persuade. They are a natural art, the rules of which are infallible; and the simplest man with passion will be more persuasive than the most eloquent without.
[See Maxim 249 which is an illustration of this.]
  The passions possess a certain injustice and self interest which makes it dangerous to follow them, and in reality we should distrust them even when they appear most trustworthy.
  In the human heart there is a perpetual gene- ration of passions; so that the ruin of one is almost always the foundation of another.
  Passions often produce their contraries: ava- rice sometimes leads to prodigality, and prodigality to avarice; we are often obstinate through weakness and daring though timidity.
  Whatever care we take to conceal our pas- sions under the appearances of piety and honour, they are always to be seen through these veils.
[The 1st edition, 1665, preserves the image perhaps better–“however we may conceal our passions under the veil, etc., there is always some place where they peep out.”]
  Our self love endures more impatiently the condemnation of our tastes than of our opinions.
  Men are not only prone to forget benefits and injuries; they even hate those who have obliged them, and cease to hate those who have injured them. The necessity of revenging an injury or of recompensing a benefit seems a slavery to which they are unwilling to submit.
  The clemency of Princes is often but policy to win the affections of the people.
[“So many are the advantages which monarchs gain by clemency, so greatly does it raise their fame and endear them to their subjects, that it is generally happy for them to have an opportunity of displaying it.”–Montesquieu, ESPRIT DES LOIS, LIB. VI., C. 21.]
  This clemency of which they make a merit, arises oftentimes from vanity, sometimes from idle- ness, oftentimes from fear, and almost always from all three combined.
[La Rochefoucauld is content to paint the age in which he lived. Here the clemency spoken of is nothing more than an expression of the policy of Anne of Austria. Rochefoucauld had sacrificed all to her; even the favour of Cardinal Richelieu, but when she became regent she be- stowed her favours upon those she hated; her friends were forgotten.–AIME MARTIN. The reader will hereby see that the age in which the writer lived best interprets his maxims.]
  The moderation of those who are happy arises from the calm which good fortune bestows upon their temper.
  Moderation is caused by the fear of exciting the envy and contempt which those merit who are intoxicated with their good fortune; it is a vain dis- play of our strength of mind, and in short the mo- deration of men at their greatest height is only a desire to appear greater than their fortune.
  We have all sufficient strength to support the misfortunes of others.
[The strongest example of this is the passage in Lucre- tius, lib. ii., line I:–
“Suave mari magno turbantibus aequora ventis E terra magnum alterius spectare laborem.”]
  The constancy of the wise is only the talent of concealing the agitation of their hearts.
[Thus wisdom is only hypocrisy, says a commentator. This definition of constancy is a result of maxim 18.]
  Those who are condemned to death affect some- times a constancy and contempt for death which is only the fear of facing it; so that one may say that this constancy and contempt are to their mind what the bandage is to their eyes.
[See this thought elaborated in maxim 504.]
  Philosophy triumphs easily over past evils and future evils; but present evils triumph over it.
  Few people know death, we only endure it, usually from determination, and even from stupidity and custom; and most men only die because they know not how to prevent dying.
  When great men permit themselves to be cast down by the continuance of misfortune, they show us that they were only sustained by ambition, and not by their mind; so that PLUS a great vanity, heroes are made like other men.
[Both these maxims have been rewritten and made conciser by the author; the variations are not worth quoting.]
  We need greater virtues to sustain good than evil fortune.
[“Prosperity do{th} best discover vice, but adversity do{th} best discover virtue.”–Lord Bacon, ESSAYS{, (1625), “Of Adversity”}.]
{The quotation wrongly had “does” for “doth”.}
  Neither the sun nor death can be looked at without winking.
  People are often vain of their passions, even of the worst, but envy is a passion so timid and shame-faced that no one ever dare avow her.
  Jealousy is in a manner just and reasonable, as it tends to preserve a good which belongs, or which we believe belongs to us, on the other hand envy is a fury which cannot endure the happiness of others.
  The evil that we do does not attract to us so much persecution and hatred as our good qualities.
  We have more strength than will; and it is often merely for an excuse we say things are impos- sible.
  If we had no faults we should not take so much pleasure in noting those of others.
  Jealousy lives upon doubt; and comes to an end or becomes a fury as soon as it passes from doubt to certainty.
  Pride indemnifies itself and loses nothing even when it casts away vanity.
[See maxim 450, where the author states, what we take from our other faults we add to our pride.]
  If we had no pride we should not complain of that of others.
[“The proud are ever most provoked by pride.”-Cow- per, CONVERSATION 160.]
  Pride is much the same in all men, the only difference is the method and manner of showing it.
[“Pride bestowed on all a common friend.”–Pope, ESSAY ON MAN, Ep. ii., line 273.]
  It would seem that nature, which has so wisely ordered the organs of our body for our happiness, has also given us pride to spare us the mortification of knowing our imperfections.
  Pride has a larger part than goodness in our remonstrances with those who commit faults, and we reprove them not so much to correct as to persuade them that we ourselves are free from faults.
  We promise according to our hopes; we per- form according to our fears.
[“The reason why the Cardinal (Mazarin) deferred so long to grant the favours he had promised, was because he was persuaded that hope was much more capable of keeping men to their duty than gratitude.”–FRAGMENTS HISTORIQUES. RACINE.]
  Interest speaks all sorts of tongues and plays all sorts of characters; even that of disinterestedness.
  Interest blinds some and makes some see.
  Those who apply themselves too closely to little things often become incapable of great things.
  We have not enough strength to follow all our reason.
  A man often believes himself leader when he is led; as his mind endeavours to reach one goal, his heart insensibly drags him towards another.
  Strength and weakness of mind are mis-named; they are really only the good or happy arrangement of our bodily organs.
  The caprice of our temper is even more whim- sical than that of Fortune.
  The attachment or indifference which philoso- phers have shown to life is only the style of their self love, about which we can no more dispute than of that of the palate or of the choice of colours.
  Our temper sets a price upon every gift that we receive from fortune.
  Happiness is in the taste, and not in the things themselves; we are happy from possessing what we like, not from possessing what others like.
  We are never so happy or so unhappy as we suppose.
  Those who think they have merit persuade themselves that they are honoured by being unhappy, in order to persuade others and themselves that they are worthy to be the butt of fortune.
[“Ambition has been so strong as to make very miserable men take comfort that they were supreme in misery; and certain it is{, that where} we cannot distinguish ourselves by some- thing excellent, we begin to take a complacency in some singular infirmities, follies, or defects of one kind or other.” –Burke, {ON THE SUBLIME AND BEAUTIFUL, (1756), Part I, Sect. XVII}.]
{The translators’ incorrectly cite SPEECH ON CONCILIATION WITH AMERICA. Also, Burke does not actually write “Ambition has been…”, he writes “It has been…” when speaking of ambition.}
  Nothing should so much diminish the satisfac- tion which we feel with ourselves as seeing that we disapprove at one time of that which we approve of at another.
  Whatever difference there appears in our for- tunes, there is nevertheless a certain compensation of good and evil which renders them equal.
  Whatever great advantages nature may give, it is not she alone, but fortune also that makes the hero.
  The contempt of riches in philosophers was only a hidden desire to avenge their merit upon the injustice of fortune, by despising the very goods of which fortune had deprived them; it was a secret to guard themselves against the degradation of poverty, it was a back way by which to arrive at that distinc- tion which they could not gain by riches.
[“It is always easy as well as agreeable for the inferior ranks of mankind to claim merit from the contempt of that pomp and pleasure which fortune has placed beyond their reach. The virtue of the primitive Christians, like that of the first Romans, was very frequently guarded by poverty and ignorance.”–Gibbon, DECLINE AND FALL, CHAP. 15.]
  The hate of favourites is only a love of favour. The envy of NOT possessing it, consoles and softens its regrets by the contempt it evinces for those who pos- sess it, and we refuse them our homage, not being able to detract from them what attracts that of the rest of the world.
  To establish ourselves in the world we do everything to appear as if we were established.
  Although men flatter themselves with their great actions, they are not so often the result of a great design as of chance.
  It would seem that our actions have lucky or unlucky stars to which they owe a great part of the blame or praise which is given them.
  There are no accidents so unfortunate from which skilful men will not draw some advantage, nor so fortunate that foolish men will not turn them to their hurt.
  Fortune turns all things to the advantage of those on whom she smiles.
  The happiness or unhappiness of men depends no less upon their dispositions than their fortunes.
[“Still to ourselves in every place consigned Our own felicity we make or find.”
Goldsmith, TRAVELLER, 431.]
  Sincerity is an openness of heart; we find it in very few people; what we usually see is only an artful dissimulation to win the confidence of others.
  The aversion to lying is often a hidden ambi- tion to render our words credible and weighty, and to attach a religious aspect to our conversation.
  Truth does not do as much good in the world, as its counterfeits do evil.
  There is no praise we have not lavished upon Prudence; and yet she cannot assure to us the most trifling event.
[The author corrected this maxim several times, in 1665 it is No. 75; 1666, No. 66; 1671-5, No. 65; in the last edition it stands as at present. In the first he quotes Juvenal, Sat. X., line 315.
” Nullum numen habes si sit Prudentia, nos te; Nos facimus, Fortuna, deam, coeloque locamus.” Applying to Prudence what Juvenal does to Fortune, and with much greater force.]
  A clever man ought to so regulate his interests that each will fall in due order. Our greediness so often troubles us, making us run after so many things at the same time, that while we too eagerly look after the least we miss the greatest.
  What grace is to the body good sense is to the mind.
  It is difficult to define love; all we can say is, that in the soul it is a desire to rule, in the mind it is a sympathy, and in the body it is a hidden and deli- cate wish to possess what we love–PLUS many mysteries.
[“Love is the love of one {singularly,} with desire to be singularly beloved.”–Hobbes{, LEVIATHAN, (1651), Part I, Chapter VI}.]
{Two notes about this quotation: (1) the translators’ mistakenly have “singularity” for the first “singularly” and (2) Hobbes does not actually write “Love is the…”–he writes “Love of one…” under the heading “The passion of Love.”}
  If there is a pure love, exempt from the mix- ture of our other passions, it is that which is concealed at the bottom of the heart and of which even our- selves are ignorant.
  There is no disguise which can long hide love where it exists, nor feign it where it does not.
  There are few people who would not be ashamed of being beloved when they love no longer.
  If we judge of love by the majority of its results it rather resembles hatred than friendship.
  We may find women who have never indulged in an intrigue, but it is rare to find those who have intrigued but once.
[“Yet there are some, they say, who have had {NONE}; But those who have, ne’er end with only {ONE}.” {–Lord Byron, }DON JUAN, {Canto} iii., stanza 4.]
  There is only one sort of love, but there are a thousand different copies.
  Neither love nor fire can subsist without per- petual motion; both cease to live so soon as they cease to hope, or to fear.
[So Lord Byron{, STANZAS, (1819), stanza 3} says of Love– “Like chiefs of faction,
His life is action.”]
  There is real love just as there are real ghosts; every person speaks of it, few persons have seen it.
[“Oh Love! no habitant of earth thou art– An unseen seraph, we believe in thee–
A faith whose martyrs are the broken heart,– But never yet hath seen, nor e’er shall see The naked eye, thy form as it should be.” {–Lord Byron, }CHILDE HAROLD, {Canto} iv., stanza 121.]
  Love lends its name to an infinite number of engagements (COMMERCES) which are attributed to it, but with which it has no more concern than the Doge has with all that is done in Venice.
  The love of justice is simply in the majority of men the fear of suffering injustice.
  Silence is the best resolve for him who distrusts himself.
  What renders us so changeable in our friend- ship is, that it is difficult to know the qualities of the soul, but easy to know those of the mind.
  We can love nothing but what agrees with us, and we can only follow our taste or our pleasure when we prefer our friends to ourselves; nevertheless it is only by that preference that friendship can be true and perfect.
  Reconciliation with our enemies is but a desire to better our condition, a weariness of war, the fear of some unlucky accident.
[“Thus terminated that famous war of the Fronde. * * The Duke de la Rochefoucauld desired peace because of his dangerous wounds and ruined castles, which had made him dread even worse events. On the other side the Queen, who had shown herself so ungrateful to her too ambitious friends, did not cease to feel the bitterness of their resentment. ‘I wish,’ said she, ‘it were always night, because daylight shows me so many who have betrayed me.'”–MEMOIRES DE MADAME DE MOTTEVILLE, TOM. IV., p. 60. Another proof that although these maxims are in some cases of universal application, they were based entirely on the experience of the age in which the author lived.]
  What men term friendship is merely a partner- ship with a collection of reciprocal interests, and an exchange of favours–in fact it is but a trade in which self love always expects to gain something.
  It is more disgraceful to distrust than to be deceived by our friends.
  We often persuade ourselves to love people who are more powerful than we are, yet interest alone produces our friendship; we do not give our hearts away for the good we wish to do, but for that we ex- pect to receive.
  Our distrust of another justifies his deceit.
  Men would not live long in society were they not the dupes of each other.
[A maxim, adds Aime Martin, “Which may enter into the code of a vulgar rogue, but one is astonished to find it in a moral treatise.” Yet we have scriptural authority for it: “Deceiving and being deceived.”–2 TIM. iii. 13.]
  Self love increases or diminishes for us the good qualities of our friends, in proportion to the satisfaction we feel with them, and we judge of their merit by the manner in which they act towards us.
  Everyone blames his memory, no one blames his judgment.
  In the intercourse of life, we please more by our faults than by our good qualities.
  The largest ambition has the least appearance of ambition when it meets with an absolute impossi- bility in compassing its object.
  To awaken a man who is deceived as to his own merit is to do him as bad a turn as that done to the Athenian madman who was happy in believing that all the ships touching at the port belonged to him.
[That is, they cured him. The madman was Thrasyllus, son of Pythodorus. His brother Crito cured him, when he infinitely regretted the time of his more pleasant mad- ness.–See Aelian, VAR. HIST. iv. 25. So Horace– ————-“Pol, me occidistis, amici, Non servastis,” ait, “cui sic extorta voluptas Et demptus per vim mentis gratissimus error.” HOR. EP. ii–2, 138,
of the madman who was cured of a pleasant lunacy.]
  Old men delight in giving good advice as a consolation for the fact that they can no longer set bad examples.
  Great names degrade instead of elevating those who know not how to sustain them.
  The test of extraordinary merit is to see those who envy it the most yet obliged to praise it.
  A man is perhaps ungrateful, but often less chargeable with ingratitude than his benefactor is.
  We are deceived if we think that mind and judgment are two different matters: judgment is but the extent of the light of the mind. This light pene- trates to the bottom of matters; it remarks all that can be remarked, and perceives what appears imper- ceptible. Therefore we must agree that it is the ex- tent of the light in the mind that produces all the effects which we attribute to judgment.
  Everyone praises his heart, none dare praise their understanding.
  Politeness of mind consists in thinking chaste and refined thoughts.
  Gallantry of mind is saying the most empty things in an agreeable manner.
  Ideas often flash across our minds more com- plete than we could make them after much labour.
  The head is ever the dupe of the heart.
[A feeble imitation of that great thought “All folly comes from the heart.”–AIME MARTIN. But Bonhome, in his L’ART DE PENSER, says “Plusieurs diraient en periode quarre que quelques reflexions que fasse l’esprit et quelques resolu- tions qu’il prenne pour corriger ses travers le premier sen- timent du coeur renverse tous ses projets. Mais il n’appar- tient qu’a M. de la Rochefoucauld de dire tout en un mot que l’esprit est toujours la dupe du coeur.”]
  Those who know their minds do not neces- sarily know their hearts.
  Men and things have each their proper per- spective; to judge rightly of some it is necessary to see them near, of others we can never judge rightly but at a distance.
  A man for whom accident discovers sense, is not a rational being. A man only is so who under- stands, who distinguishes, who tests it.
  To understand matters rightly we should understand their details, and as that knowledge is almost infinite, our knowledge is always superficial and imperfect.
  One kind of flirtation is to boast we never flirt.
  The head cannot long play the part of the heart.
  Youth changes its tastes by the warmth of its blood, age retains its tastes by habit.
  Nothing is given so profusely as advice.
  The more we love a woman the more prone we are to hate her.
  The blemishes of the mind, like those of the face, increase by age.
  There may be good but there are no pleasant marriages.
  We are inconsolable at being deceived by our enemies and betrayed by our friends, yet still we are often content to be thus served by ourselves.
  It is as easy unwittingly to deceive oneself as to deceive others.
  Nothing is less sincere than the way of asking and giving advice. The person asking seems to pay deference to the opinion of his friend, while thinking in reality of making his friend approve his opinion and be responsible for his conduct. The person giving the advice returns the confidence placed in him by eager and disinterested zeal, in doing which he is usually guided only by his own interest or reputation.
[“I have often thought how ill-natured a maxim it was which on many occasions I have heard from people of good understanding, ‘That as to what related to private conduct no one was ever the better for advice.’ But upon further examination I have resolved with myself that the maxim might be admitted without any violent prejudice to mankind. For in the manner advice was generally given there was no reason I thought to wonder it should be so ill received, something there was which strangely inverted the case, and made the giver to be the only gainer. For by what I could observe in many occurrences of our lives, that which we called giving advice was properly taking an occasion to show our own wisdom at another’s expense. On the other side to be instructed or to receive advice on the terms usually prescribed to us was little better than tamely to afford another the occasion of raising himself a character from our defects.”–Lord Shaftesbury, CHARAC- TERISTICS, i., 153.]
  The most subtle of our acts is to simulate blindness for snares that we know are set for us. We are never so easily deceived as when trying to deceive.
  The intention of never deceiving often exposes us to deception.
  We become so accustomed to disguise ourselves to others that at last we are disguised to ourselves.
[“Those who quit their proper character{,} to assume what does not belong to them, are{,} for the greater part{,} ignorant both of the character they leave{,} and of the character they assume.”–Burke, {REFLECTIONS ON THE REVOLUTION IN FRANCE, (1790), Paragraph 19}.]
{The translators’ incorrectly cite THOUGHTS ON THE CAUSE OF THE PRESENT DISCONTENTS.}
  We often act treacherously more from weak- ness than from a fixed motive.
  We frequently do good to enable us with impunity to do evil.
  If we conquer our passions it is more from their weakness than from our strength.
  If we never flattered ourselves we should have but scant pleasure.
  The most deceitful persons spend their lives in blaming deceit, so as to use it on some great occa- sion to promote some great interest.
  The daily employment of cunning marks a little mind, it generally happens that those who resort to it in one respect to protect themselves lay them- selves open to attack in another.
[“With that low cunning which in fools supplies, And amply, too, the place of being wise.” Churchill, ROSCIAD, 117.]
  Cunning and treachery are the offspring of incapacity.
  The true way to be deceived is to think one- self more knowing than others.
  Too great cleverness is but deceptive delicacy, true delicacy is the most substantial cleverness.
  It is sometimes necessary to play the fool to avoid being deceived by cunning men.
  Weakness is the only fault which cannot be cured.
  The smallest fault of women who give them- selves up to love is to love.
[——“Faciunt graviora coactae
Imperio sexus minimumque libidine peccant.” Juvenal, SAT. vi., 134.]
  It is far easier to be wise for others than to be so for oneself.
[Hence the proverb, “A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for his client.”]
  The only good examples are those, that make us see the absurdity of bad originals.
  We are never so ridiculous from the habits we have as from those that we affect to have.
  We sometimes differ more widely from our- selves than we do from others.
  There are some who never would have loved if they never had heard it spoken of.
  When not prompted by vanity we say little.
  A man would rather say evil of himself than say nothing.
[“Montaigne’s vanity led him to talk perpetually of himself, and as often happens to vain men, he would rather talk of his own failings than of any foreign subject.”– Hallam, LITERATURE OF EUROPE.]
  One of the reasons that we find so few persons rational and agreeable in conversation is there is hardly a person who does not think more of what he wants to say than of his answer to what is said. The most clever and polite are content with only seeming attentive while we perceive in their mind and eyes that at the very time they are wander- ing from what is said and desire to return to what they want to say. Instead of considering that the worst way to persuade or please others is to try thus strongly to please ourselves, and that to listen well and to answer well are some of the greatest charms we can have in conversation.
[“An absent man can make but few observations, he can pursue nothing steadily because his absences make him lose his way. They are very disagreeable and hardly to be tolerated in old age, but in youth they cannot be forgiven.” –Lord Chesterfield, LETTER 195.]
  If it was not for the company of fools, a witty man would often be greatly at a loss.
  We often boast that we are never bored, but yet we are so conceited that we do not perceive how often we bore others.
  As it is the mark of great minds to say many things in a few words, so it is that of little minds to use many words to say nothing.
[“So much they talked, so very little said.” Churchill, ROSCIAD, 550.
“Men who are unequal to the labour of discussing an ar- gument or wish to avoid it, are willing enough to suppose that much has been proved because much has been said.”– Junius, JAN. 1769.]
  It is oftener by the estimation of our own feelings that we exaggerate the good qualities of others than by their merit, and when we praise them we wish to attract their praise.
  We do not like to praise, and we never praise without a motive. Praise is flattery, artful, hidden, delicate, which gratifies differently him who praises and him who is praised. The one takes it as the re- ward of merit, the other bestows it to show his im- partiality and knowledge.
  We often select envenomed praise which, by a reaction upon those we praise, shows faults we could not have shown by other means.
  Usually we only praise to be praised.
  Few are sufficiently wise to prefer censure which is useful to praise which is treacherous.
  Some reproaches praise; some praises re- proach.
[“Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer, And, without sneering, teach the rest to sneer.” Pope {ESSAY ON MAN, (1733), EPISTLE TO DR. ARBUTHNOT.}]
  The refusal of praise is only the wish to be praised twice.
[The modesty which pretends to refuse praise is but in truth a desire to be praised more highly. EDITION 1665.]
  The desire which urges us to deserve praise strengthens our good qualities, and praise given to wit, valour, and beauty, tends to increase them.
  It is easier to govern others than to prevent being governed.
  If we never flattered ourselves the flattery of others would not hurt us.
[“Adulatione servilia fingebant securi de fragilitate cre- dentis.” Tacit. Ann. xvi.]
  Nature makes merit but fortune sets it to work.
  Fortune cures us of many faults that reason could not.
  There are some persons who only disgust with their abilities, there are persons who please even with their faults.
  There are persons whose only merit consists in saying and doing stupid things at the right time, and who ruin all if they change their manners.
  The fame of great men ought always to be estimated by the means used to acquire it.
  Flattery is base coin to which only our vanity gives currency.
  It is not enough to have great qualities, we should also have the management of them.
  However brilliant an action it should not be esteemed great unless the result of a great motive.
  A certain harmony should be kept between actions and ideas if we desire to estimate the effects that they produce.
  The art of using moderate abilities to advan- tage wins praise, and often acquires more reputation than real brilliancy.
  Numberless arts appear foolish whose secre{t} motives are most wise and weighty.
  It is much easier to seem fitted for posts we do not fill than for those we do.
  Ability wins us the esteem of the true men, luck that of the people.
  The world oftener rewards the appearance of merit than merit itself.
  Avarice is more opposed to economy than to liberality.
  However deceitful hope may be, yet she carries us on pleasantly to the end of life.
[“Hope travels through, nor quits us when we die.” Pope: ESSAY ON MAN, Ep. ii.]
  Idleness and fear keeps us in the path of duty, but our virtue often gets the praise.
[“Quod segnitia erat sapientia vocaretur.” Tacitus Hist. I.]
  If one acts rightly and honestly, it is difficult to decide whether it is the effect of integrity or skill.
  As rivers are lost in the sea so are virtues in self.
  If we thoroughly consider the varied effects
